# AI approaches can aid subjective tasks in Histopathology
## Introduction
Pathology is an important field in medical research and treatment. Physicians often think of pathologic reports as definite diagnoses. However, the pathologic evaluation usually suffers from inter-observer variation. This variation can be attributed to different factors, including the experience of the pathologist, the subjectivity of the task, and the technicalities of immunohistochemical and molecular tests. Among these factors, subjectivity is the one that is possibly handled by using computer vision (CV) models. Such frameworks can be flexibly designed to “quantify” the subjective tasks. It is easier said than done. Quantification of the subjectivity depends tremendously on the task at hand. It can be very different from task to task.

The type of task such as classification and/or segmentation
The architecture of the model
The entire pipeline from the model’s task to post-model algorithms
In this mini-review, I would like to summarize subjective tasks in pathology that require the help of AI, especially deep learning models. There are many subjective tasks in Histopathology, including:

- Disease detection
- Histologic Grading
- Biomarker quantification
## Disease detection
Histopathological diagnosis is sometimes subjective under the light microscope. The AI improves and, sometimes, outperforms the accuracy of human pathologists in detecting many diseases, including tuberculosis [1], atherosclerosis [2], prostate cancer [3], lung cancer, colon cancer [4], and so on.

For example, the task of detecting mycobacterium, the bacteria of tuberculosis, under the Ziehl-Neelsen stain can be tedious and exhaustive for human pathologists. This is because the bacteria is so small that it needs to be observed under the highest magnification.
